2025-01-02 18:09

Status: 

Tags: 

# Searchable Symmetric Encryption

## SSE w/ Linear Scans
The data owner, encrypts keywords in separate.

Keywords are first encrypted w/ deterministic encryption and then xored w/ a random pad generated by applying a PRF to a stream of bits from a PRNG.
- The random pad adds entropy to the deterministic encryption in a way that can be later removed

**PRF keys** are unique for each keyword and dependent on them.
**Search** is done by sending the encrypted keyword and PRF key to the server.

- **Database privacy** comes from the xor of each keyword w/ random bits.
- **Query privacy** comes from the encryption of queries.

However, since this encryption is deterministic, some information patterns are revealed:
- Search Patterns
- Access Patterns
- Frequency Patterns

## SSE w/ Encrypted Index
Improved scalability by using an **encrypted index structure**.

Before uploading documents for storage, they are processed, keywords extracted, and an inverted index is built.
- **Index keys** are unique keywords encrypted with deterministic encryption
- **Index values** are sets of document IDs where the keywords appear
	- To hide the length of these sets, **index positions are shuffled**, and each index value **encrypts the pointer and decryption key to the next entry** in the set

To **search**, the client sends the **encrypted keyword** and the **decryption**
**key for the first index** value.

Security
- During **storage**, the encrypted index **reveals nothing**
- During **processing**, *search* and *access patterns* are leaked

## Dynamic SSE w/ Updates
Practical applications typically need to update documents. In index-based schemes, this means that we need a way to efficiently and privately update the index.

The server stores two indexes
- One keeps additions of keywords to documents and the other keeps deletions.

And the client keeps two dictionaries of counters
- Which tell how many additions (respectively, deletions) have been performed for each unique keyword.

# Attacking SSE

There are two major attacks to SSE:
- Passive Leakage-Inference Attacks - These attacks consist in observing search and access patterns and try to deduce information from them.
- Active File-Injection Attacks - This attack consists in forcing the client to add files to the database w/ keywords chosen by the adversary.

# References

https://moodle.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/pluginfile.php/554344/mod_resource/content/5/dps-06-searchable%20encryption.pdf